# Android API Specification

This project is designed to analyze and visualize class dependencies and relationships in Android codebases. It builds a directed graph from JSON files representing class structures and their members, dependencies between classes and members, and provides various insights into the graph. We have developed a project, that utilzie [JavaParser](https://github.com/javaparser/javaparser) to extract dependencies between API classes and methods from JavaDoc formatted comments, that is available from [here](https://github.com/maryammsd/android-framework-comments). Therefore, you need to initially build that project and retrieve the `JSON` files created by it. 

## Goals

- Budiling the graph of dependency between methods and classes for a specific Android API class. 
- Retrieve information about the graph such as the 
  - Number of nodes and edges between an API class to others.
  - Depth of the graph.
  - Isolated nodes.
  - Top dependencies.
- Interacting with LLM to predict device settings for a specific API class by traversing the dependency graph. 

## Features

- **Graph Construction**: Builds a directed graph from JSON files representing class structures and their members.
- **Visualization**: Generates both static (`.gml`) and interactive (`.html`) visualizations of the graph.
- **Graph Analysis**:
  - Calculates graph depth and number of nodes.
  - Identifies isolated nodes.
  - Detects cycles.
  - Finds top dependencies (classes with maximum and minimum dependencies).
- **Integration with DeepSeek**: Interacts with DeepSeek for processing node comments in order to analyze the comments from dependent methods to geneate a description of steps to configure. A *step to configure (s2r)* declares the steps to configure an Android device for an API class or method to operate when being called in an app code. 


## Dependencies

- Python 3.x
- NetworkX
- Matplotlib
- PyVis
- Pandas

## Project Structure

```
deepseek/ 
functions/
main.py
prompt.py
analyze.py
```

## Key Files

- **`main.py`**: The main script for graph construction, visualization, and analysis.
- **`prompt.py`**: Handle interaction with LLM by connecting to DeepSeek-r1:32 through ollama on our remote server. It also contains prompt template for inferring the Android device setting given the API dependencies with comments.
- **`analyze.py`**: Tries to compare the API specification generated by this work with the other solutions. We use an excel file, located in the directory `function/` that contains a list of API classes with the setting device specifications in them to compare with the API specification collected through the devised solution in this repo. 
- **`function/`**: Contains an excel file consisting of the list of API classes. The result of the analysis will be stored under this directory for further notice. 

## Usage

After installing required packages, you can run the code by,
````
python main.py
````
There are four different operations you can perform,
````
1. Read from Excel file and build the graph for each class (if not exists), then interact with LLM to find dependencies.
2. Specify the path of excel file consisting of the list of classes. 
3. Enter a class name and find its dependencies.
4. exit

````
If you choose operation 3, you must enter the API class method with its package name (example: `android.io.Bundle`). 

Remember to modify the below variables in function `main` in the `main.py` before running the code,

````
- output_json_dir = "PATH_TO_JSON-FILES" : `PATH_TO_JSON-FILES` points to the directory where the `json` files consisting of information about the methods and variables dependent to each other for a class. These files are generated after running the project available here. 
- output_excel_dir = "PATH_TO_EXCEL_FILE" : `PATH_TO_EXCEL_FILE` points to the file that consists of list of class names in its first column, that we want to predict the Android device settings for them.
- output_graph_dir = "PATH_TO_GRAPH_FILES": `PATH_TO_GRAPH_FILES` points to the directory where the graph representation of `json` files in `PATH_TO_JSON-FILES` are kept. 

````

## Desired Outputs

Each of the feature mentioned in section [Features](#features) have the following outputs,

- **Interactive Visualization**: `<class-name>.html` contains the html representation of the constructed graph for the Android API class entitled with `<class-name>`.
- **Graph Data**: `<class-name>.gml` contains the gml representation of the constructed graph for the Android API class entitled with `<class-name>`.
- **Specification**: `response_log.json` contains the list of Android API classes and methods with predicted device setting, number of tokesn for the generated prompts and received responses. 
- **Comparison Result**: `result.log` contains the information about the similarity of API specification predicted with this project and other solutions, which are available through an excel file in directory `functions/`.


## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please submit a pull request or open an issue for any suggestions or improvements.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Contact

For questions or support, please contact [Maryam](mailto:mamt@connect.ust.hk).
